#AI Usage Report

This semester, I challenged myself to really dive into how people are using LLMs in their programming workflows, and I feel like I've learned a lot!  As you know, I used to work as a software engineer before I came to Harvard.  I was a full stack React developer, and took a lot of pride in my programming abilities.  Consequently, I've been fairly hesitant to offload too much of my workflow to AI.  Until this semester, the extent of my AI usage has been using Claude in the same way I would use Stack Overflow: I intentionally introduce friction and open a chat window to ask my question, and it was mostly for debugging.  I would occasionally ask for a code function/component and copy and paste it in.  I was super weary of using anything agentic, which I liberally applied by not even using anything that would automatically edit my files with any insertions/deletions.

I'm taking another HCI class right now (CS 2780) on Engineering of Useful and Useable Systems, where I was also encouraged to learn more about AI programming workflows, and I started interviewing my classmates and other "expert" users for how they did things.  I felt like they were giving away more agency than I would have liked, so through trial and error I've come up with a balance for myself that I think I'm pretty happy with!

I'm using Cursor, often in 'Ask' or 'Plan' mode by default, and only switching to 'Agent' when I actually want code written -- but never with dangerous permissions.  It can only run read-only commands without my express permision.  What I did that was absolutely *game changing* was using Cursor to write its own rule files.  I would open a workspace with a bunch of examples of repositories that I wrote by hand that I was really proud of, and had Cursor (in ask mode) read through all the files and compile a list of patterns I followed in my own development practices.  I then took those and turned them into a set of rules that I loaded into Cursor to make sure that it programmed in my style.

This worked great for letting Cursor make feature changes to established repositories of mine, but I was still scared to use it at the nascent stages of a project.  Every tool I've tried to zero-shot something has unimpressed me with its fidelity, or it's expandability (i.e. so much ends up hard-coded and impossible to improve upon).  What I ended up doing is templatizing one of my own repos.  I created my own version of create-react-app basically with starter files for modals, contexts, app structure, css classes, etc.  This made using Cursor somewhat agentically much easier, and much more reliable.  I've built enough projects over the past six years, that for most features I was implementing, I could think of one of my previous projects that had done something similar.  That meant all I had to do was add that project's folder to the workspace, pass it explicitly to Cursor as a reference, and ask it to use the same technique, structure, or styling.  It's far from perfect and I had to do plenty of very explicit hand-holding with my asks (e.g. "look at function-name in @file-name, we should use the same idea in @other-file for when other-function is triggered") but it was a really fun experiment!

I also "used AI" in the sense that I've integrated LLMs into the tool for analysis, but even though that's a *very creative use of AI...wink wink*, I don't think that's what this usage report means.