I used Claude (Sonnet 4.6) as the primary tool for generating code. Once I had the UI backbone of the app set up, I instruted Claude to write code implementing my StorageBackend protocol that supports each of the disk write methods and different flush modes. I additionally used ChatGPT Thinking (GPT 5.4) to gather context around iOS storage history as well as cross-check output from Claude. I found that Claude wrote proper, functional code for the benchmarking suite but struggled to create views that consistently compiled or didn't get clipped. These cases required manual work on my end to fix. Additionally, I used Claude to copy edit my final report and suggest questions that classmates might ask during my final presentation.

Some tips for AI usage:
* I find it useful to create files/folders inside my project repo first on my own, even if it's just `touch`ing a few files. The exercise of creating a structure and file/folder names indirectly guides the code generation, and more importantly, makes debugging much easier when issues inevitably appear. I have tried pure prompt-from-empty-directory and always find the overhead from understanding the project structure in this case much worse than taking a few minutes to plan it out myself first.
* For code where I care about some metric of performance rather than getting things done quick-and-easy, I like using a "critic agent" (terminology introduced to me by a friend at [OpenHands](https://docs.openhands.dev/sdk/guides/critic)). It has anecdotally worked for me to have one model or instance work over the task context and focus on generating viable code, and another to evaluate the output for any performance or logical issues while having much less direct (code) context.